README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin)

# What is this ?

This project is an implementation of the flexvolume kubernetes plugin to inject a scoped vault token inside pods at startup so they can get their secrets, via consul-template for instance.

# How do I build it ?

Just run `make` ( or ` go build -o whatever .` where `whatever` is the name you want the binary to have )
By default the name of the binary is `vaulttmpfs`
All dependencies are vendored under `/vendor` with glide and commited, so you can build with just the go toolchain..

You can also `go get github.com/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin`

# How does it work ?

It creates a tmpfs volume and mounts it at a path specify by the kubelet.
Inside the volume are 2 files with a configurable _basename_:
- `basename` that contains the raw wrapped vault token.
- `basename.json` that contains the full response from vault at token creation time (includes some vault metadata)

The token is scoped to a policy defined by a parameter provided to the plugin via stdin by the kubelet (cf. flexvolume documentation)

The binary generated by the project must be present on the node in at a specific path under the directory specified to the kubelet by the flag `--volume-plugin-dir` (cf. kubelet flexvolume documentation)
By default : `$VOLUME_PLUGIN_DIR/exec/cloudwatt~vaulttmpfs/vaulttmpfs`

Then you can refer to this volume in a pod like so :

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
    volumeMounts:
    - name: secret
      mountPath: /crazy
  dnsPolicy: Default
  volumes:
  - name: secret
    flexVolume:
      driver: "cloudwatt/vaulttmpfs"
      fsType: "tmpfs"
      options:
        vault/policies: "nginx"
```

It expects a vault token at a configurable path (set by `VAULTTMPFS_GENERATOR_TOKEN_PATH`) with a policy that allows the creation of token against the *application_role*
(set by `VAULTTMPFS_ROLE_NAME`)

e.g : if the *application_role* is `super_role` then the policy should give write access to `auth/token/create/super_role`

An example of the policy is given in `policies/token_generator_policy.hcl`

# Configuration

Since the kubelet runs the plugin with a fixed set of arguments we can't pass configuration via flags in the command line.
We therefore use environment variables. The process inherits all the environment from the kubelet.

The plugin supports some the standard `vault` environment variables [as defined here](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/environment.html) (it calls `config.ReadEnvironment()`)
This means that all the defaults for these are set by Vault and the default value specified in the table below are subject to being FALSE
 (althought you should probably never use default values)
Vault loads system's CAs by default, but you can specifiy a custom CA certificate with `VAULT_CACERT` or `VAULT_CAPATH`.

Additionally we have variables to configure settings external to vault. These are prefixed with `VAULTTMPFS_` so as to not conflict with anything else.

(non-exhaustive) Table of supported configuration variables :

| Environment Variable              | default                    | Description                                                                                                                                   |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `VAULTTMPFS_GENERATOR_TOKEN_PATH` | /etc/kubernetes/vaulttoken | The path to load the token used by this service from.                                                                                         |
| `VAULTTMPFS_TOKEN_FILENAME`       | vault-token                | The name of the file in the created volume that will contain the wrapped token                                                                |
| `VAULTTMPFS_ROLE_NAME`            | applications               | The role in auth/token against which the tokens will be created                                                                               |
| `VAULT_ADDR`                      | https://127.0.0.1:8200     | The vault server URL                                                                                                                          |
| `VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME`           | ""                         | If set, use the given name as the SNI host when connecting via TLS.                                                                           |
| `VAULT_WRAP_TTL`                  | 5m                         | TTL of the wrapped Token inserted in the volume.                                                                                              |
| `VAULT_MAX_RETRY`                 | 2                          | The maximum number of retries when a 5xx error code is encountered. Default is 2, for three total tries; set to 0 or less to disable retrying |


# Bootstrap

There is an helper command to bootstrap a node with a token for the token generator policy.
It supports 2 authentification methods : interactive LDAP auth (needs to be configured and activated in vault), or that you have (root) `VAULT_TOKEN` set in the environment.
just run : `vaulttmpfs bootstrap`

You need to have VAULT_ADDR set as an environment variable

Commit message:

Add vault/role option
New option vault/role (string) creates the token against the provided role.
The default role can be set by the env varialbe VAULTTMPFS_DEFAULT_ROLE_NAME
and defaults to "applications".

valut/role: "special-role"

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin)

# What is this ?

This project is an implementation of the flexvolume kubernetes plugin to inject a scoped vault token inside pods at startup so they can get their secrets, via consul-template for instance.

# How do I build it ?

Just run `make` ( or ` go build -o whatever .` where `whatever` is the name you want the binary to have )
By default the name of the binary is `vaulttmpfs`
All dependencies are vendored under `/vendor` with glide and commited, so you can build with just the go toolchain..

You can also `go get github.com/fcantournet/kubernetes-flexvolume-vault-plugin`

# How does it work ?

It creates a tmpfs volume and mounts it at a path specify by the kubelet.
Inside the volume are 2 files with a configurable _basename_:
- `basename` that contains the raw wrapped vault token.
- `basename.json` that contains the full response from vault at token creation time (includes some vault metadata)

Multiple options can be provided to the plugin via stdin by the kubelet (cf. flexvolume documentation)

| Option                            | Default                            | Description                                                                                                                                   |
|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `vault/policies`                  | ""                                 | The policies scoped to the token.                                                                                                             |
| `vault/unwrap`                    | "false"                            | Provides an unwrapped token.                                                                                                                  |
| `vault/role`                      | "`$VAULTTMPFS_DEFAULT_ROLE_NAME`"  | The default role in auth/token against which the tokens will be created.                                                                      |


The binary generated by the project must be present on the node in at a specific path under the directory specified to the kubelet by the flag `--volume-plugin-dir` (cf. kubelet flexvolume documentation)
By default : `$VOLUME_PLUGIN_DIR/exec/cloudwatt~vaulttmpfs/vaulttmpfs`

Then you can refer to this volume in a pod like so :

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
    volumeMounts:
    - name: secret
      mountPath: /crazy
  dnsPolicy: Default
  volumes:
  - name: secret
    flexVolume:
      driver: "cloudwatt/vaulttmpfs"
      fsType: "tmpfs"
      options:
        vault/policies: "nginx"
```

By default vault tokens are created against the `applications` role (set by `VAULTTMPFS_DEFAULT_ROLE_NAME`).
A different role can be passed via stdin option per token.

The vault token given to this plugin (set by `VAULTTMPFS_GENERATOR_TOKEN_PATH`) must have the necessary policies to create other tokens against the wanted roles.
e.g : If the *application_role* is `nginx` then the policy should give write access to `auth/token/create/nginx`

Examples of policies and roles are given in `examples/`. Please refer to the [vault api documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/auth/token/index.html#create-update-token-role)

# Configuration

Since the kubelet runs the plugin with a fixed set of arguments we can't pass configuration via flags in the command line.
We therefore use environment variables. The process inherits all the environment from the kubelet.

The plugin supports some the standard `vault` environment variables [as defined here](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/environment.html) (it calls `config.ReadEnvironment()`)
This means that all the defaults for these are set by Vault and the default value specified in the table below are subject to being FALSE
 (althought you should probably never use default values)
Vault loads system's CAs by default, but you can specifiy a custom CA certificate with `VAULT_CACERT` or `VAULT_CAPATH`.

Additionally we have variables to configure settings external to vault. These are prefixed with `VAULTTMPFS_` so as to not conflict with anything else.

(non-exhaustive) Table of supported configuration variables :

| Environment Variable              | default                    | Description                                                                                                                                   |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `VAULTTMPFS_GENERATOR_TOKEN_PATH` | /etc/kubernetes/vaulttoken | The path to load the token used by this service from.                                                                                         |
| `VAULTTMPFS_TOKEN_FILENAME`       | vault-token                | The name of the file in the created volume that will contain the wrapped token                                                                |
| `VAULTTMPFS_DEFAULT_ROLE_NAME`    | applications               | The default role in auth/token against which the tokens will be created                                                                       |
| `VAULT_ADDR`                      | https://127.0.0.1:8200     | The vault server URL                                                                                                                          |
| `VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME`           | ""                         | If set, use the given name as the SNI host when connecting via TLS.                                                                           |
| `VAULT_WRAP_TTL`                  | 5m                         | TTL of the wrapped Token inserted in the volume.                                                                                              |
| `VAULT_MAX_RETRY`                 | 2                          | The maximum number of retries when a 5xx error code is encountered. Default is 2, for three total tries; set to 0 or less to disable retrying |


# Bootstrap

There is an helper command to bootstrap a node with a token for the token generator policy.
It supports 2 authentification methods : interactive LDAP auth (needs to be configured and activated in vault), or that you have (root) `VAULT_TOKEN` set in the environment.
just run : `vaulttmpfs bootstrap`

You need to have VAULT_ADDR set as an environment variable
